DAN: When the Vestals invaded New Vestroia
and captured all the Bakugan,
they didn't count on Drago and I
returning to free our friends.
Time to get... serious!
So we joined the Bakugan Battle Brawlers Resistance!
Together we have a chance to defeat the Vexos,
take back New Vestroia and save the Bakugan once and for all!
Let's go, Drago!
Bakugan... Brawl!
\u266a What are you going to do? \u266a
\u266a The odds are stacked against you \u266a
\u266a Back against the wall
\u266a Gotta give it your all...
\u266a Ah ha ah ha
\u266a this is the final stand
\u266a the power's in your hand
\u266a Two worlds collide
\u266a On the inside
\u266a You gotta fight for what's right \u266a
\u266a Before it's gone, gone, gone \u266a
\u266a This is BAKUGAN!
[\u266a]
I don't know why you had to bring us to a desert.
MARUCHO: Don't think of it as a desert.
Think of it as a really big beach.
The Bakugan Battle Brawlers in Duel in the Dunes.
Well, here we are!
Wow...
I can't believe it!
Finally! Master Dan's house!
It's so awesome!
DRAGO: Can we move this tour along?
You know, Baron's got a point.
I haven't been home for a while...
I really missed this place.
My house doesn't transform into a trailer
but it's still pretty cool I think.
I'm sure it is.
Yeah!
I want the full on Dan Kuso experience...
Bring it on. Totally!
I'm home!
Daniel!
I'm so glad you're back...
Your father and I have missed you so much.
Oh mom!
Oh son!
Oh boy, it's good to meet you!
Me?
No way... Impossible.
You're even younger and prettier than I imagined...
Master Dan's mom!
You little sweetie...
And... what is your name?
Baron!
Well welcome, Baron...
Please make yourself at home.
You won't even notice me...
He's giving me a rash.
He's one friendly guy.
Just a little something I whipped up!
Dig in, everyone!
I didn't know you were a gourmet chef, Master Dan's mother.
Let her go!
And who wins the Spudnuts.
Oh, I know... I know!
This bath thing is great!
Life at Master Dan's house is awesome!
Hey Mira...
I can't believe Mom roped you into joining her.
Is this...
some Earth... torture?
Sort of.
It's called yoga.
Time for my pudding break.
The only question is; which flavour to choose.
Speaking of choosing,
is Mira your new girlfriend?
Dad! What are you talking about?
We're just brawling partners.
That's cool.
We're working together to free the Bakugan.
That's it. End of story.
I won't be freeing any Bakugan,
unless I get out of this pose.
VOLT: It's bad enough I'm the one stuck battling
the dweeb of the Resistance.
But now I have to find him too?
It just figures that he'd get himself lost
in a sandstorm.
It seems like a win win situation to me.
Either the little loser fries in the desert
or you and I burn him in battle.
It's almost poetic, don't you think? (laughs)
You know I'm not into poetry.
Oh of course, Volt.
MARUCHO: Wow.
This is the biggest sandbox I've ever seen.
Next time we fall into a trap, remind me to bring
my SPF 3 million suntan lotion.
Lay off the cheesy jokes, Marucho.
We've got to find a way out of this.
My creamy blue skin doesn't need a tan.
Uh... Sorry.
I was just trying to keep things light.
Yeah? Well focus on which way we should be going.
Left or right?
Either way looks bad.
I'm so thirsty I could drink an ocean...
No, wait a minute.
I'm so thirsty I could drink an ocean then go
back for a refill.
Hey!
I'm an Aquos attribute Bakugan.
We know how to handle the desert.
What have you got in mind?
Well, how about a little shade?
A parasol is handy for keeping the hot sun
off your skin.
I always carry one for just such an occasion.
I'm so thirsty...
I'm too thirsty to even joke anymore.
Oh.
You mean you were serious about being thirsty?
Oh, I can help with that.
Open wide, Marucho!
It's time to wet your whistle!
Slow down. You're going too fast...
By the way, what is a whistle?
Come on, Marucho.
The fountain's open.
Want some water?
Ooh, too slow!
Give me a break.
My tongue's so dry it's gonna fall off.
Uh oh. That's all there is...
What? Nooo! All gone!
My water...
Sorry...
but you snooze, you lose.
What?
You were the one spraying it all over the place!
Don't complain to me, slowpoke.
You're the reason we're lost in this overgrown
sandpit in the first place.
Why didn't you stop me?
You're supposed to be so smart.
Why didn't you see I was walking into a trap?
I am smart....
Yeah, real smart...
VOLT: Where is that little dwiener?
I've been across this desert ten times
and there's still no sign of him.
Just so you know, when we get home,
I'll be looking for a new partner.
Sounds good to me.
I don't want a partner who sleeps under lily pads.
Fine.
Then we're agreed...
I don't even care if you apologize...
I've made up my mind.
Look over there! Woohoo!
Cool pools and shady trees.
Here I come!
Something doesn't feel right...
Wait for me, Elfin!
ELFIN: No way!
You're not holding me back any longer, Marucho.
What the...?
It just disappeared.
I figured.
Sorry.
I know it looked like an oasis, Elfin, but it was
just a mirage.
That's a trick the desert plays on your mind
when you're hot and thirsty.
Well it's a nasty trick, Marucho!
I know...
I'm tired of this desert.
I want to go home...
Elfin! Come back!
I'm... so... weak...
Whoa!
W-what's happening?
I think...
I'm sinking in quick sand!
Quick sand! ?
That's bad, right?
Don't worry Marucho...
I'll pull you out.
Save yourself, Elfin!
Don't be silly.
I'll have you out of here in no time.
Let me go and save yourself!
Please! Before it's too late!
No!
This is all my fault.
I won't let you go.
This is it, Elfin!
I'm sorry I let you down, Dan.
When was this picture taken?
That's the Battle Brawlers...
We were celebrating after saving Vestroia.
Those were some pretty sweet times.
... The six original Brawlers.
DAN: Yeah, we were a pretty tight group.
We fought hard and together, we won.
The Bakugan Battle Brawlers Resistance...
is gonna hammer those Vexos too...
Right Mira?
...Uh, right.
DAN: I hope we can get back to New Vestroia soon...
The guys need our help...
against the Vexos...
We're on the way...
Ace, Shun...
and Marucho...
We'll be right back... I hope.
We're back.
And I hope you brought us a glass of water!
No...
I'm not going to let a little sand stop me.
Never give up!
Dan is counting on us...
Right on, Marucho!
You can do it.
Yeah!
As long as we're the only ones who can save the Bakugan,
we can't stop.
Yay!
[chanting] Mar-u-cho! Mar-u-cho!
We're rescued!
Almost there!
Right...
[\u266a]
MARUCHO: Volt?
We're better off in the sand pit.
You saved us?
You're wasting time...
Get climbing.
You're pretty tough for a little squirt.
I don't get it.
We're sworn enemies...
Why are you helping me?
One reason...
The desert is no end for a warrior...
And despite your size
you've proven to be a worthy opponent.
A Brawler's fate is decided in battle...
That's how the Vexos do it.
Okay then...
If you're looking for a brawl,
then you've got one.
I accept your challenge!
And you wouldn't happen to have sunscreen, would you?
...No?
Okay then.
GAUNTLET: Gauntlet Activated.
BOTH: Gauntlet... Power Strike!
We've got to make this fast, Elfin.
We're too weak to battle for long.
Gate Card... Open!
Bakugan... Brawl!
Brontes Stand!
If you can't stand the heat, get out of the desert!
HAHAHA!
Marucho, stop staring!
Right!
We can do this Elfin...
Bakugan Brawl!
Elfin Stand!
Sun, wind and rain combine.
Let Aquos Elfin appear!
You're the bully of the beach!
It's so hot...
Couldn't we brawl somewhere
with air-conditioning instead?
Elfin!
You're hot?
Then I'll cool you down for good!
Ability Activate!
Jeel Frontier!
Nothing happened!
Marucho!
It's a real oasis!
\u266a Swimming! Swimming!
Elfin!
What the heck are you doing?
Forget it.
She's gone to her happy place and Jeel Frontier
keeps you from activating
any abilities to help her.
Oh... yeah!
Come on in, Marucho!
The water's fine!
MARUCHO: She's totally gone!
You know the rules...
Always swim with a buddy!
You're on lifeguard duty.
Bakugan Trap!
Aquos Tripod Epsilon!
A Bakugan Trap?
Watch out Brontes.
Those things are deadly!
You're Tripod Epsilon?
Uuuh...
Okay...
Let's do this.
Ability Activate!
GAUNTLET: Ability Card Set!
Cool Snail!
What? ! I can't move!
The frog's aura is blocking my abilities.
Right! Haos Ability Activate!
GAUNTLET: Ability Card Set.
Diamond Snail!
Soooo cool!
What the...? The sand is so hot!
Hot hot hot hot hot hot hot hot!
You blocked Brontes' abilities!
That's not all!
Subterra Ability Activate!
GAUNTLET: Ability Card Set.
MARUCHO: Canyon Snail!
GAUNTLET: Brontes decrease 200.
MARUCHO: We totally did it!
Way to go, Tripod Epsilon!
I can't tell who to thank.
The frog or the snail?
Ability Activate!
GAUNTLET: Ability Card Set!
Darkus Howl Trigger!
MARUCHO: Um... Did he say Darkus?
You celebrate victory too soon!
VOLT: So much for froggy.
What next? A tadpole?
Tripod Epsilon!
Darkus Howl Trigger is Brontes' special ability.
It means he can use a Darkus ability and turn
your day at the beach into a loser's nightmare!
Think so?
Not while Elfin can change her attribute too!
Sun, wind and rain combine!
Let Ventus Elfin appear!
You are in... trouble now!
Ability Activate!
Wing Mercury!
Green and mean!
HA! Gate Card Open!
Haos Reactor!
GAUNTLET: Brontes increase 100.
Ability Activate.
Luny Magical!
What? Hey!
It's easy to swat such a pesky mosquito...
...with my Haos ability!
No, Elfin, no!
That's not fair!
He's using Haos and Darkus abilities!
Shouldn't there be a penalty for that?
That's it!
All we need to do is shut down Haos and Darkus
at the same time!
You can do that?
Get ready for round two!
Gate Card, Set!
Bakugan Brawl!
The last time the sun was in my eyes
but this time I'm ready!
We'll see...
Bakugan brawl!
Brontes Stand!
How many times do we have to slap you down?
As many times as it takes!
Gate Card Open! Aquos Reactor!
Alright!
We're wet and wild again!
Don't you hold back, Marucho!
Ability Activate!
GAUNTLET: Ability Card Set.
MARUCHO: Subterra Reaction!
BRONTES: Volt, what's happening?
Brontes!
It's Subterra Reaction...
One of Aquos Elfin's special abilities.
We just changed your attribute to Subterra.
Now you can't use Haos or Darkus abilities!
Marucho, you rock!
We've got them now, Elfin!
GAUNTLET: Ability Card Set.
Ability Activate!
Shooting stardust!
ELFIN: Soak it up!
[loud scream]
MARUCHO: Who's the fall guy this time, Volt?
Not bad, huh?
Not bad at all...
I like to see a little fire
before I stamp it out!
Gate Card Open!
Bakugan... Brawl!
No more fooling around.
We'll show them who's fooling...
Bakugan Brawl!
I'm not finished yet...
Bakugan Trap!
Meet Cyber Bakugan Trap...
Dynamo!
What's with Vexos and cyber stuff?
VOLT: Why don't I show you?
Brontes, Drone Spider!
Oh yes!
Change, Dynamo Brontes!
Combine!
ELFIN: Uh, bad idea.
Those colours totally clash.
Marucho... Where'd they go?
VOLT: Don't worry.
They're very close.
Ability Activate!
Desert Python!
It doesn't matter where you run!
Hey, leave me alone!
What did I ever do to you?
You guys are a bunch of--
VOLT: It will find you!
Run, Elfin!
I've got to get another Bakugan out there...
I need your help Bakugan Trap...
Tripod Epsilon!
Subterra Ability Activate!
GAUNTLET: Ability Card Set.
MARUCHO: Desert Marine!
This will even things out!
Come out, come out, wherever you are.
Gotcha!
You've got 'em now!
In that case, no more hiding!
Good!
As long as I can see you, I can beat you!
Attribute Change...
Here comes Darkus!
Yeah!
Hiiiii...
Yaaaaaahhhh!
Too slow!
Ability Activate!
Ability Card Set.
Gillan Corps!
MARUCHO: Tripod Epsilon!
GAUNTLET: Tripod Epsilon, Power Level, zero.
Oh he croaked!
Don't mess with the frog!
You're so right!
Ability Activate!
Moon Rainbow!
Do you feel my Darkus Power rising?!
Nice work...
That move just strengthened our Darkus power too!
I forgot!
GAUNTLET: Ability Card Set.
Ability Activate!
Aurora Dimension!
Uh... no.
You can't run and you can't hide from this ability.
And best of all,
it combines Dynamo and Brontes' Power Levels!
Are you afraid of the dark?
You should be!
Ahh!
[scream]
Elfin, hold on!
I can't!
I'm disappointed.
I thought the Earth brawler would put up a
better fight.
But at least we can use this one as bait
to trap the others...
Say goodbye to the Resistance!
Noooooooooo!
Marucho!
Dan, what's wrong?
Nothing. Just a dream.
THINKING: Dream or not.
I have to find a way to get back to New Vestroia
and help Shun and Marucho...
before it's too late!
Shun here.
Marucho and Ace have disappeared so it looks like
I'm all that's left of the Bakugan Brawlers Resistance.
But I'm not alone as long as I have Ingram with me.
That's why I'm not worried when freako Shadow Prove
challenges us to a brawl.
So why's he laughing?
Because...
his new Bakugan is our old enemy...
Hydra!
It's gonna be a serious grudge match!
Bakugan Brawl!
This is too intense! Be there!